# Assignment phase 1

# Documentation - Git
Git Repository URL : https://github.com/Alek-beep/AssignmentPhase1
# Layout
My GitHub repository is arranged so that it is the equivalent to the source folder of the angular project. This was done to make it simpler to push changes to the repository from my local repository. The files for the back-end server are in the server folder and the src folder in the repository is the src folder of the front-end angular app. In the AssignmentPhase1/src/assets folder there are the .json files for the groups and users data structures. Also, all of the documentation for the assignment is located in the Assignment/Phase1/Assignment Documentation folder
# Version Control Approach
My approach towards version control was as follows; I would commit and push from my local repository after a milestone like a creating a set of functions that would be a good checkpoint to go back to in case anything went seriously wrong with the development.
# Documentation - REST API
Git Repository URL : https://github.com/Alek-beep/AssignmentPhase1
# Routes in the application
The angular front end communicates with the back-end node.js server using routes. The system utilizes the RESTful system. Firstly it separates the concerns of the user interface from the data storage which is all done on the backend node.js server using the ability of javascript to read in from and write to JSON files. A JSON file is read and turned into a string which is then turned into a javascript object using JSON.parse(). This makes the processing of the data much easier, and also keeps it away from the user interface elements. The system is also stateless. Each request from the front end to the back end contains all of the information necessary for the request.

# /api/auth
The /api/auth route takes in the entered username and email on the user interface from the login form. It then checks if the request body contains data. After this check, the data from the users.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. Using the find() function for javascript objects, the list of users is checked against the entered username and email from the log in form. If a user is found then a true JSON string is sent with the result along with the role of the user back to the front-end. Otherwise a false JSON is sent.
# /api/add
The /api/add route is used for adding a user to the system by storing it in the JSON file. The  route takes in the entered username and email on the user interface from the login form. It then checks if the request body contains data. After this check, the data from the users.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. Using the find() function for javascript objects, the list of users is checked against the entered username and email from the log in form. If a user is found then a false JSON string is returned since an already present user can not be added. Otherwise a dummy element is created and filled with the relevant data from the request body and pushed onto the Users javascript object array. This is then converted back into a JSON string and stored in the users.json file along with sending back a true confirmation JSON string to the front-end.
# /api/remove_user
This route takes in a username from the front-end in the request body parameter. Then, the data from the users.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is searched for a matching username to the one from the request parameter. If the username is found then it is spliced out of the object using splice(). Then this updated JavaScript object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the users.json file. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/add_group
This route is for adding a group to the list of groups. The route takes in a group name from the front-end via the request parameter of the route. It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing.  A dummy element is filled with the relevant data including the group name from the front-end via the request parameter. Then this dummy element is pushed onto the end of the array of objects using push(). Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/remove_group
This route is for removing a group from the list of groups. The route takes in a group name from the front-end via the request parameter of the route. It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is then searched through for a group whose name matches the group name from the function parameter. Once a matching group is found, the corresponding group is spliced out of the object array using splice(). Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/remove_user_from_group
This route is for removing a single user from a group. It takes in as parameters from the front-end the group name and the user to remove via the request body. It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is then searched through for a group whose name matches the group name from the function parameter. Once a matching group is found, it then searches for a matching user to remove. If one is found then this user is spliced out from the object using the splice() function. Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/remove_channel_from_group
This route is for removing a single channel from a group. It takes in as a parameters from the front-end the group name and the channel to remove. It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is then searched through for a group whose name matches the group name from the function parameter. Once a matching group is found, it then searches for a matching channel to remove. If one is found then this channel is spliced out from the object using the splice() function. Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/add_user_to_group
This route is for adding a single user to a group. It takes in as parameters from the front-end the group name and the user to add.  It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is then searched through for a group whose name matches the group name from the function parameter. Once a matching group is found, it then searches for a matching user to add. Once a user is found, the user is added to the array associated with the users that are a part of the group in the javascript object. Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# /api/add_channel_to_group
This route is for adding a single channel to a group. It takes in as parameters from the front-end the group name and the channel to add to it. It then checks if the request body contains data. Then, the data from the groups.json file is converted into a javascript object for easier processing. This object is then searched through for a group whose name matches the group name from the function parameter. Once the group name is found, a new channel is pushed onto the channel array using the push() function filled with a corresponding element {channelName:req.body.channel, users:[]} to keep the JSON file consistent. Then this new object is converted back into a JSON string and overwrites the groups.json file, updating it. If this was successful then it responds with a true JSON string otherwise it responds to the front-end with a false JSON string.
# Documentation - Data Structures
Git Repository URL : https://github.com/Alek-beep/AssignmentPhase1
# Main Data Structures
There are two main data structures for assignment phase 1. Both data structures are .json files for the storage of what should in the future be stored in relational tables. The first .json file is the users.json file which is used to store an array of JSON objects containing a username, email, id and role for each user. The other main data structure is a .json file which stores an Array of JSON objects for every group which contains the name of the group, all the users in that group and the channels for the group stored in their own nested array of JSON objects which includes the name for each channel along with the users that are in the respective channels.
# The template for a single user is :
[{"username":"User1","email":"user1@user.com","Id":4,"Role":"User"}]
# The template for a group is :
[{
"name":"Group 1","users":["Alek"],
"channels":[{"channelName":"Channel 2","users":["User1", "User2"]},]{"channelName":"Channel 1","users":["User1", "User2"]}]
}]
# Documentation - Angular Architecture
Git Repository URL : https://github.com/Alek-beep/AssignmentPhase1
# Components
The front end of the application is made up of several components.
# The App Component
The app component contains the navigation bar at the top of the page which is present on all of the pages of the application. Also it contains elements such as the app-routing module which contains all of the routes that angular uses to get to the various components of the application. The app component also allows for the user to log out from the navigation bar using the log out link that is associated with a function in app.component.ts
# Login
The login component is the first place the user goes in the application. It contains a form for the entry of a username and email to log in to the system. If a user is successful in logging in, then the users' details are stored in localStorage.
# Account
The account component is the place the user is taken after logging in. It displays the users details and all of the possible functions for the user. It displays functions that only work if a user's role is elevated enough. These functions check once the button is clicked what the user's role is. If the user is allowed to, then they can perform the following functions on this page: Add User, Remove User, Add Group, Add User To Group, Add Channel to Group, Remove Group, Remove User From Group and Remove Channel From Group.
# Chat
This component will house the actual chat part of the application in assignment phase 2.



